ULTRASONOGRAPHY OF WHOLE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS

PATIENT NAME: Mrs. Sunita Devi
AGE/SEX: 41 Y / F
REFERRED BY: Dr. P. Menon
CLINICAL HISTORY: Right upper quadrant pain since 2 weeks, intermittent, non radiating.
TECHNIQUE: Real time grey scale and colour Doppler sonography of the abdomen and pelvis was performed using a 3.5 MHz curvilinear transducer with the patient in supine and left lateral decubitus positions after adequate fasting.

FINDINGS:
Liver: Normal in size measuring 14.2 cm in craniocaudal span with smooth margins and homogeneous parenchymal echotexture. No focal solid or cystic lesion is seen. Intrahepatic biliary radicles are not dilated.
Gallbladder: Well distended. Multiple mobile echogenic foci measuring 4 mm to 11 mm are seen within the lumen showing posterior acoustic shadowing. Wall thickness is 2.1 mm. No pericholecystic fluid collection is noted.
Biliary Tree: Common bile duct measures 4.3 mm in maximum diameter and is not dilated.
Pancreas: Head, body and tail are normal in size and echotexture. The main pancreatic duct is not dilated. No peripancreatic collection is seen.
Spleen: Measures 9.6 cm and is normal in echotexture. No focal lesion.
Kidneys: Right kidney measures 9.8 x 4.4 cm and the left kidney measures 10.1 x 4.6 cm. Both show normal cortical echogenicity with maintained corticomedullary differentiation. No calculus or hydronephrosis is seen on either side.
Urinary Bladder: Partially distended with smooth wall and anechoic contents. Post void residual volume is 18 ml.
Uterus and Adnexa: Uterus is anteverted measuring 7.9 x 4.1 x 3.6 cm with homogeneous myometrial echotexture. Endometrial thickness is 6 mm. Both ovaries are normal in size and echotexture.
No free fluid is seen in the peritoneal cavity or in the pouch of Douglas.

IMPRESSION:
• Multiple cholelithiasis measuring 4 mm to 11 mm without evidence of acute cholecystitis.
• No hepatic, pancreatic, splenic or renal abnormality detected.
• Post void residual urine volume within normal limits.

COMMENT: Surgical consultation for symptomatic cholelithiasis may be considered.

Please correlate clinically.
Thanks for the referral,
DR. ABHIJEET SHARMA
M.D. RADIOLOGY
